#Article 
**Abstract:**
	Visual input provides vital information for helping us modify our walking pattern. For example, artificial optic flow can drive changes in step length during locomotion and may also be useful for augmenting locomotor training for individuals with gait asymmetries. Here we asked whether optic flow could modify the acquisition of a symmetric walking pattern during split-belt treadmill adaptation. Participants walked on a split-belt treadmill while watching a virtual scene that produced artificial optic flow. For the Stance Congruent group, the scene moved at the slow belt speed at foot strike on the slow belt and then moved at the fast belt speed at foot strike on the fast belt. This approximates what participants would see if they moved over ground with the same walking pattern. For the Stance Incongruent group, the scene moved fast during slow stance and vice versa. In this case, flow speed does not match what the foot is experiencing, but predicts the belt speed for the next foot strike. Results showed that the Stance Incongruent group learned more quickly than the Stance Congruent group even though each group learned the same amount during adaptation. The increase in learning rate was primarily driven by changes in spatial control of each limb, rather than temporal control. Interestingly, when this alternating optic flow pattern was presented alone, no adaptation occurred. Our results demonstrate that an unnatural pattern of optic flow, one that predicts the belt speed on the next foot strike, can be used to enhance learning rate during split-belt locomotor adaptation.
**Notes:**
	This article looked primarily at the number of strides that was needed in order to reach a symmetric step length when a split belt treadmill had asymmetric belt speeds (0.5m/s and 1.5m/s) while having the optic flow speed match either the belt with the stance leg (stance congruent) or the belt without the stance leg (stance incongruent). This article found that there was a statistical significance for the reaching step symmetry quicker when the optic flow matched the belt that did not have the stance leg! As a secondary study this article looked at if the the asymmetric gait cycled could be unlearned using optic flow, and determined that optic did not contribute in a significant was to the unlearning process.

**Highlights:**
- Furthermore, if the speed of optic flow is increased (decreased) relative to their actual walking speed, they will decelerate (accelerate) to try and drive the visually perceived speed toward the actual walking speed. Interestingly, these changes are preferentially driven by changes in stride length, not cadence.
- Thus, if the visuomotor effects of optic flow are generated within a step cycle, it may be possible to modify asymmetry by introducing patterns of optic flow that vary in speed at each foot strike.
- In our Stance Congruent group, optic flow speed was matched to the speed of the belt under the stance leg. In our Stance Incongruent group, optic flow speed was matched to the speed of the belt opposite the stance limb. We hypothesized that these types of optic flow would have opposing effects on symmetry, with the Stance Congruent flow speeding adaptation and the Stance Incongruent flow slowing adaptation. To our surprise, our results showed the opposite.
- Participants held on to a handrail in front of the treadmill during all phases of the experiment to prevent them from drifting backward and to better represent the conditions used when stroke survivors train on a split-belt treadmill. Although this provides participants with a ground reference, they perceived that both they and the handrail moved through space,
- spatial strategy to reduce asymmetry. A positive, vertical shift of the fast limb’s center of oscillation is capable of reducing the asymmetry in angular spread.
- temporal strategy to reduce asymmetry. Introducing a phase lag in the slow limb (solid line) can also result in a more symmetric stepping pattern.
- it would also predict that asymmetries in  optic flow would modify the walking pattern when both treadmill belts move at the same speed; however, this was not what we observed.

**Components**
[[Asymmetric Belt Speed]]
[[Asymmetric Optic Flow]]

**References:**
