#Article 
**Abstract:**
	When people walk together in groups or crowds they must coordinate their walking speed and direction with their neighbors. This paper investigates how a pedestrian visually controls speed when following a leader on a straight path (one-dimensional following). To model the behavioral dynamics of following, participants in Experiment 1 walked behind a confederate who randomly increased or decreased his walking speed. The data were used to test six models of speed control that used the leader’s speed, distance, or combinations of both to regulate the follower’s acceleration. To test the optical information used to control speed, participants in Experiment 2 walked behind a virtual moving pole, whose visual angle and binocular disparity were independently manipulated. The results indicate the followers match the speed of the leader, and do so using a visual control law that primarily nulls the leader’s optical expansion (change in visual angle), with little influence of change in disparity. This finding has direct applications to understanding the coordination among neighbors in human crowds.

**Notes:**
	In this article two experiments are performed. The first experiment had a leader instructed to start walking at a self selected speed, then either speed up, slow down, or maintain speed, and then go back to the initially self selected speed. While the leader was doing this a follower was instructed to maintain the initial distance with the leader. The acceleration of the follower was compared to different mathematical models of leader/follower behavior and it was determined that model that fit the data the best was a speed-matching model.  Experiment 2 had the follower wear a head mounted display and follow a cylinder like it was a friend. One group of participants had the leader hold a fixed speed, then either speed up, slow down, or maintain constant speed, and then resume the original speed. The other group of participants had the cylinder hold a fixed speed, then shrink, grow, or stay the same, and then go back to its original size. The change in size in the cylinder for the second group matched the height of what the cylinder would have looked like to the subject as if it was moving relative to the subject. This experiment was performed to determine that if following was determined more by optical expansion or binocular disparity, and it was determined that optical expansion is the "primary optical information" used to control the speed of human following. (I don't have the best grasp of experiment 2)
**Highlights:**
- The results indicate the followers match the speed of the leader, and do so using a visual control law that primarily nulls the leader’s optical expansion (change in visual angle), with little influence of change in disparity.
- The simple speed-matching model performs just as well as the more complicated ratio and linear models, and significantly better than any of the distance-based models. Moreover, adding a damping term or an explicit delay term does not improve its performance. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that pedestrian following is best described by a simple physical model in which the follower matches the leader’s speed, regardless of distance.
- It has been observed that when viewing a virtual environment in a head-mounted display (HMD), distances greater than a few meters tend to be underestimated by about 50%
- However, it has been shown that after 510 min of walking with visual feedback in virtual reality, distance is rescaled and the underestimation is eliminated
- In sum, the results of Experiment 2 indicate that optical expansion, rather than change in binocular disparity and vergence, is the primary optical information used to control speed in human following
References:
